howdy howdy Chris here and welcome back
to garage noise today we're talking
about base coat clear coat finishes I'm
going to show you how to apply your base
coat so it's nice and silky smooth we're
also going to talk about clear coat
application and give you some secrets on
how to adjust your gun and some
different spraying techniques going to
help you apply a better looking clear
coat so let's get in the garage and make
some noise this is a 2018 Chevy Colorado
we painted this door previously the
color was a little bit off so we went
ahead and had O'Reilly come down with
their scan tool and they scanned it got
the color very close so it's a very
blendable color now we're going to
repaint this door we're going to blend
into this door here we're going to spray
the fender and then we're going to
respray the bumper with the correct
color a color that's much closer than
the previous color we painted that
bumper so I'm going to share with you
how to apply the base coat today had
some questions on how to apply base coat
people are getting rough finishes and I
want to share with you how to properly
apply that so you get a nice silky
smooth finish because if you don't get a
silky smooth finish on your base coat
your clear coat will never be flat and
glassy so let's talk about how to set up
your gun for base coat and how to apply
it for a silky smooth finish this is the
gun we're going to be using for the base
coat now for the clear coat I'm going to
go ahead and use the cigola 3300 GTO I'm
excited to show you that gun and share
with you how well that gun performs but
as far as our gun set settings for our
base coat we're going to want to go
ahead and turn this fluid knob in all
the way and then we're going to do two
turns out from closed
one two we're going to adjust our air
pressure to for base coat you want to
run it between 15 and 20 psi maybe a
little bit higher than 20 psi you're
just going to have to judge for yourself
but on this particular gun around 20 psi
is perfect now as far as the fan pattern
I'm going to open up the fan pattern all
the way and then I'm just going to to
dial it back core of return now this gun
is a low volume low pressure paint gun
so it requires less cfms to operate so
it consumes less air to operate
efficiently uh so it's a really good gun
for base coat go ahead and lay down some
base on this and I'll show you some
techniques to laying a smooth base so
I've already started laying some coats
of base on this this was a e-coat that
we sanded down with 600 and then we went
ahead and put some adhesion Promoter on
the edges and now we're going to lay it
lay down some more base now when you're
applying your first and second coat of
Base you want a medium to wet coat don't
want to put it on super wet right off
the bat if you're new to painting it
doesn't hurt at all to put a dust coat
on first there's a couple reasons why
this might be helpful if you're spraying
in an open garage you're not spraying in
a booth you're not spraying in a
controlled environment a light coat over
the panel introduces that paint to the
surface if there's going to be any any
kind of chemical reaction it's going to
reduce that I sprayed a vehicle the
other day that was just purchased and it
was covered with Tire dressing so
silicone which is the absolute worst
thing you can put on a vehicle if you're
going to be painting it this thing was
had a bath of silicone so I had to wipe
it down like six different times and
still when I applied my base I put a
medium to wet coat on and there's a
couple little uh fishe eyes which is a
paint Separation on the panel now that's
easily taken care care of you can just
let it dry and then Dust coat it and
most of the time it's not going to
affect your finish at all or you could
just scuff it down a little bit and then
recat it in base but my point is put a
dust coat on first just for insurance
just a light coat especially if you're
new to painting or you're in an
uncontrolled environment put your light
coat on first then you want medium to
wet coats typically it's two to three
coats until you get coverage if you feel
like you're not getting enough material
on the panel then just move a little
closer to the panel you don't have to
adjust your gun or you can just bump up
your fluid volume just a little bit if
you want that silky smooth finish it's
important that you overlap your passes
about 80% especially with a low volume
low pressure paint gun now 80% means you
make a pass and then on your second pass
you're going to cover 80% of that
previous pass so you're overlapping your
previous pass by
80% first thing I'm going to do is cut
in under here
now we'll make our we'll make our first
pass over
here now I'm overlapping
okay so we'll let this flash off for
about 15 minutes you want to let your
base coats flash off for about 15
minutes in between coats on a hot day it
may be more like 10 but we'll let this
set up just for a little bit we'll come
back take a look at it see how it looks
see if we need to make any adjustments
on our gun okay so let's take a look at
this it's been about 10 minutes it's
pretty warm today 80° this is dry and
you can see how it's kind of flashed off
it's pretty smooth I mean we could bump
up our air pressure just a little bit uh
I think this gun runs pretty good around
20 to 24 PSI to be honest with you so
what we'll do is we'll put one more coat
of base on this it's pretty much covered
now and then we'll look over it with a
sunlight now as far as the blend on this
door what I'm going to do is we're
really blending the color into this door
I'll turn my tip so it's spraying like
this and I'll run one pass down this so
we start the blend and then I'll cover
this door with color one coat of color
and then our blend will be started on
this door and then I'll show you how we
blend out into the door okay as far as
the bumper cover is concerned we just
need to get a couple coats of paint on
this I've got a couple burn areas we
need to cover up here right here's one
um basically we just need to get the
right color on this when I spray this
door I'm going to start with this right
here and I'm going to put a coat or two
right here covering this edge of this
door now when I cover the rest of this
door I don't have to come out to the end
I don't want a bunch of overspray
blowing out into this door so I can just
come to right here and we'll be good
[Music]
Okay so we've got one coat on the door
I've got one coat on the blend we'll put
another coat on here another coat on the
door and then we'll start blending out
into this door here Fender is covered
I'm going to show you how you can do a
drop coat probably just show you how to
do the drop coat on the door we need one
more coat on this bumper cover so let's
go ahead and spray another coat on this
and then I'll show you how to do a drop
coat if you're doing a high metallic
finish
as I put my final coat on I'm going to
come out to about here about 6 in out
and then after I put that coat on I'm
going to do a drop coat right here so
what I'll do when I do a drop coat is
I'm going to do a cross pattern like it
kind of this way and then kind of this
way and what I'm do instead of five to
six inches away I don't adjust my gun
all I do is move back about 2 to 3 in
and then do a drop coat that's all you
need to do and that works really well on
metallics as well but you only want to
do it once you don't need to do multiple
coats of that because then you'll get
dry spray and you'll get a roughness in
your base and you don't want that
another thing is when I'm ending I don't
want a hard line here so when I'm ending
after the four to six after the six
inches I kind of just turn my wrist out
a little bit and then I start coming
back the other direction
now drop coat right
here see I'm moving back from it a
little
ways and that's it now we got a Perfect
Blend we're going to pour this to four
4:1 mixing ratio and now we're going to
add our one part of activator and this
is the gun we're using today this is the
cigola 3300 GTO using the cigola 3300
GTO this is a beautiful gun lays down a
beautiful finish it does consume about
10.4 cfms of air so compared to the
aeropro a610 or the R500 this is a
AirHog but it does produce a beautiful
looking clear coat so as far as the gun
set up for clear coat there's four
things I really want you to understand
the full four most important things when
you're laying down clear coat is your
air pressure your fluid volume your
speed and your distance the speed and
your distance affect how that clear coat
lays down and you can do a lot of
different adjustments just by changing
your speed and your distance from the
panel we're going to set up this gun at
three turns out from close
so we're closing it all the way we're
turning it three turns out okay fan
pattern is going to be wide open I'm
setting the air pressure at 26 PSI you
want to start with a base setting that
you're comfortable with now I do
recommend that you're under three turns
out from closed on your fluid volume
when you adjust that to under three
turns out on your fluid volume you can
make some adjustments with your speed in
your distance and I want you to try that
and understand how that affects your
clear coat so let's go ahead and spray
this Fender we'll see how it turns out
I'm going to be four or 5 in away I'm
going to overlap my passes about
80% that's important because that gives
you a second coverage on that wet Edge
and it's going to allow that clear coat
to flow out better
see I'm different techniques here
[Music]
overall all this finished came out
beautifully now on these two doors I did
have some particles of dust that I had
to pick out so I did end up putting a
third coat of clear on this I didn't
show you guys that so it has a little
bit more texture than I would like but
it's still just like the OEM finish one
day I'll do a whole video on how to
overcome obstacles when you're painting
if that's something you'd be interested
in let me know down in the comments
below thin wet coats is what you want
when you're laying down clear coat if
you add another layer of clear then
you're going to have some more texture
now as far as the
fender we got a little piece of lint
there that'll have to buff out I
actually bumped up the air pressure a
little bit to about 28 PSI and it flowed
out a little bit better although this is
a flat surface and when you're spraying
a flat surface it always flows out just
a little bit better so this is really
flat few little particles of
dust but we'll cut and buff those out as
far as the bumper came out nice but I
hope you guys are understanding what I'm
trying to say here as far as your speed
and your distance and it's making sense
to you if it's not and you have
questions uh leave them down in the
comments below I'm happy to answer any
questions you have this will help with
your application of your clear coat I
just want you guys to experiment with it
try different things and see what works
best for you let me know about your
project and if you found this video
helpful down in the comments below when
you comment and support the channel it
inspires me to produce more video and
better content for you listen I
appreciate all your support and if you
want to learn more about Paint Body
Repair check out one of these videos now
we'll see you next time on garage noise